website: Write up documentation for Waypoint Pipelines (#3777)
hashicorp/waypoint: website/content/docs/pipelines/index.mdx

```hcl

```

## Examples

Below is an example that redefines the Up operation to be a pipeline with three
steps for a build, deploy, and release. This example could be used as a starting
point for more complicated pipelines.

```hcl
project = "my-project"

pipeline "full-up" {
  step "my-build" {
    use "build" {}
  }

  step "my-deploy" {
    use "deploy" {}
  }

  step "my-release" {
    use "release" {}
  }
}

app "my-app" {
  build { ... }
  deploy { ... }
  release { ... }
}
```

For the `exec` steps, it accepts a command and arg parameter for running commands.

```hcl
pipeline "build-and-test" {
  step "my-build" {
    use "build" {}
  }
  step "test" {
    image_url = "https://localhost:5000/waypoint-odr:dev"
    use "exec" {
      # executes a binary test with some arguments
      command = "test"
      args    = ["--full", "test-all"]
    }
  }
  step "my-deploy" {
    use "deploy" {}
  }
}
```

To run the example pipeline named "full-up" defined in this example, it's as
simple as `waypoint pipeline run full-up`:

```shell
brian@ubuntu:waypoint-tetris λ waypoint pipeline run full-up

> » Running pipeline "full-up" for application "tetris"
> ✓ Pipeline "full-up" has started running. Attempting to read job stream sequentially in order
>   Performing operation on "kubernetes" with runner profile "kubernetes-bootstrap-profile"

Author: ```suggestion
» Running pipeline "full-up" for application "tetris"
✓ Pipeline "full-up" has started running. Attempting to read job stream sequentially in order
✓ 3 steps detected, run sequence 1
  Performing operation on "kubernetes" with runner profile "kubernetes-bootstrap-profile"
```

  Performing operation on "kubernetes" with runner profile "kubernetes-bootstrap-profile"

» Cloning data from Git
  URL: https://github.com/briancain/waypoint-tetris.git

» Downloading from Git
  Git Commit: 2133658e209f623c019ddb3c9e48c2c7ee9f4d1f
   Timestamp: 2022-08-29 17:04:04 +0000 UTC
     Message: Adding example pipeline

✓ Running deploy v1
✓ Kubernetes client connected to https://10.96.0.1:443 with namespace default
✓ Creating deployment...
✓ Expected "http" port "3000" for app "tetris-v1"
✓ Deployment successfully rolled out!
✓ Horizontal Pod Autoscaler has been created

» Executing Step "release"
  Reading job stream (jobId: 01GBNAQRW22N7PQXSF2KGXT1MS)...

  Performing operation on "kubernetes" with runner profile "kubernetes-bootstrap-profile"

» Cloning data from Git
  URL: https://github.com/briancain/waypoint-tetris.git

» Downloading from Git
  Git Commit: 2133658e209f623c019ddb3c9e48c2c7ee9f4d1f
   Timestamp: 2022-08-29 17:04:04 +0000 UTC
     Message: Adding example pipeline

✓ Running release v1
✓ Kubernetes client connected to https://my-kubernetes.example.com:443 with namespace default
✓ Creating service...
✓ Service is ready!

> ✔ Pipeline "full-up" (k8s-tetris) finished!

Author: ```suggestion
✔ Pipeline "full-up" (k8s-tetris) finished! 3/3 steps successfully completed.
```

---
layout: docs
page_title: Pipelines
description: |-
  The overview of Waypoint Pipelines.
---

# Waypoint Custom Pipelines

~> **NOTE**: Custom Pipelines is currently a **Tech Preview** feature of Waypoint.

> Given that, we invite all Waypoint users to give custom pipelines a try and let
> us know your experience with it, feature requests and enhancements, or any bugs
> you might find via our [Discuss forums](https://discuss.hashicorp.com/c/waypoint/51)
> or [GitHub](https://github.com/hashicorp/waypoint/issues). We look forward to
> hearing about your experience and ways Waypoint can help make your experience
> delivering your applications even better!

Reviewer: 💨 make it clear which things go to Discuss and which go to GitHub, and don't say `experience` twice in the same sentences
```suggestion
Given that, we invite all Waypoint users to give custom pipelines a try and let
us know your experience with it on our [Discuss forums](https://discuss.hashicorp.com/c/waypoint/51),
and feature requests, enhancements, or any bugs you might find 
via [GitHub](https://github.com/hashicorp/waypoint/issues). We look forward to
hearing what you think and ways Waypoint can help make your experience
delivering your applications even better!
```

> Waypoint before the introduction of Pipelines has always had a relatively fixed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Waypoint, before the introduction of Pipelines, has always had a relatively fixed
```

> built-in pipeline with the `waypoint up` CLI which ran a build, deploy, and
> release. An "Up" was a special operation that encapsulated a Build, Deploy, and

Reviewer: 💨 remove redundancy
```suggestion
built-in pipeline with the `waypoint up` CLI command.
An "Up" was a special operation that encapsulated a Build, Deploy, and
```

Release for an application. For most users getting started with Waypoint, this
simple pipeline is powerful enough to get off the ground continuously building

> and deploying an application to production. However, as projects and teams

Reviewer: 💨 paragraph break for easier reading
```suggestion
and deploying an application to production.

However, as projects and teams
```

> become more complicated addressing real world concerns, users wished for more

Reviewer: ```suggestion
become more complicated addressing real-world concerns, users wished for more
```

control and customization over the order in which Waypoint deploys applications.

> Running tests after a build, security scanning artifacts prior to a deploy, and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Teams need to run tests after a build, security scan artifacts prior to a deploy, and
```

> so on. This was not easily possible with the current Waypoint model. Custom
> Pipelines are an answer to this problem. With this tech preview, users can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
so on. Custom Pipelines enable teams to solve these problems. With this tech preview, users can
```

> define pipelines that can run in whichever order required to deliver an
> application. Additionally, pipelines allow for custom execution steps through

Reviewer: ```suggestion
define pipelines to run in the order they require to deliver their
application. Additionally, pipelines allow for custom execution steps through
```

> the "Exec" plugin that will run any kind of bash script as part of the pipeline
> execution for operations like running tests or security scanning.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the "Exec" plugin, allowing teams to run scripts as part of the pipeline
execution, further enabling highly-customized operations.
```

> Pipelines give users a way to tell Waypoint what order these operations should
> be run in, as well as any operation options that might need to be configured
> like disabling an artifact push for the build step, or pruning old deployments
> on a release in the release step. Waypoint projects still expect the
> application to be defined outside of a pipeline in its own `app` stanza.

Reviewer: Minor edits, plus removed a sentence that reads more like a "how to use pipelines" and less like a "marketing summary of why pipelines is cool." That sentence can move to the how-to part.
```suggestion
Pipelines allow users to tell Waypoint what order these operations should
run in and configure any operation options necessary, like disabling an
artifact push in the `build` step, or pruning old deployments
on a release in the `release` step.
```

Please visit the [Pipeline Configuration Docs](/docs/pipelines/config)
for more information about the configuration of a Pipeline for a
Waypoint project.

### Pipeline Runs

TODO – Write about pipeline run tracking and the CLI

Each time a pipeline is run, Waypoint will keep track of the resulting run and
detail how each step went or report any failures from running a Step job.

```shell

```

### Exec Step Plugin

Pipelines come with a built-in step plugin named `exec`. This plugin allows a
step to execute bash within the Pipeline run. This could be used to run tests
after a build or deploy, or use tools packaged into the exec step image to
security scan the built artifact.

```hcl
pipeline "example" {
  step "run-some-code" {
    image_url = "https://localhost:5000/waypoint-odr:dev"

    use "exec" {
      # executes a binary test with some arguments
      command = "test"
      args    = ["--full", "test-all"]
    }
  }
}
```

### Embedded Pipelines in Steps

You can optionally define a full pipeline within a Pipeline Step. This pattern

> is useful if you have a series of steps that make sense to be grouped together

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is useful if you have a series of steps that make sense to be grouped together,
```

such as doing a deploy and release within a specific workspace.

```hcl
pipeline "simple-nested" {
  step "build" {
    use "build" {
    }
  }

  step "deploy" {
    pipeline "deploy" {
      step "deploy" {
        use "deploy" {
        }
      }
      step "release" {
        use "release" {
          prune = true
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

> ~> **NOTE**: Currently, Waypoint only allows for 1 level of nesting when defining an embedded pipeline. However, Pipelines can also be used as a reference within a step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
~> **NOTE**: Currently, this Tech Preview only allows for 1 level of nesting when defining an embedded pipeline. However, Pipelines can also be used as a reference within a step.
```

### Reference Pipelines As Steps

> You can reference other Pipelines within a Project via a `"pipeline"` step:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can reference other Pipelines within a Project via a `pipeline` step:
```

```hcl
project = "my-pipeline-project"

pipeline "simple-nested" {
  step "build" {
    use "build" {
    }
  }

  step "my-deploy" {
    #  "pipeline" is a special "built-in" step that references another pipeline
    use "pipeline" {
      project = "my-pipeline-project"
      name    = "deploy"
    }
  }
}

pipeline "deploy" {
  step "deploy" {
    use "deploy" {
    }
  }
  step "release" {
    use "release" {
      prune = true
    }
  }
}
```

### Pipelines Across Workspaces

TODO – Write about Waypoint Pipelines and how it works with workspaces

Additionally, pipelines can be defined and scoped to a Workspace for deploying in various environments.

```hcl

```

## Examples

> Below is an example that redefines the Up operation to be a pipeline with 3 steps for a build, deploy, and release. This example pipeline could be used as a starting point for more complicated pipelines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below is an example that redefines the Up operation to be a pipeline with three
steps for a build, deploy, and release. This example could be used as a starting
point for more complicated pipelines.
```

```hcl
project = "my-project"

pipeline "full-up" {
  step "my-build" {
    use "build" {
    }
  }

  step "my-deploy" {
    use "deploy" {
    }
  }

  step "my-release" {
    use "release" {
    }
  }
}

app "my-app" {
  build { ... }
  deploy { ... }
  release { ... }
}
```

> For the “exec” steps, it accepts a command and arg parameter for running commands.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the `exec` steps, it accepts a command and arg parameter for running commands.
```

```hcl
pipeline "build-and-test" {
  step "my-build" {
    use "build" {
    }
  }
  step "test" {
    image_url = "https://localhost:5000/waypoint-odr:dev"
    use "exec" {
      # executes a binary test with some arguments
      command = "test"
      args    = ["--full", "test-all"]
    }
  }
  step "my-deploy" {
    use "deploy" {
    }
  }
}
```

> To run the "full-up" custom pipeline, it's as simple as `waypoint pipeline run full-up`:

Reviewer: What does "full-up" mean?

Author: Oops, I think I had the pipeline name `full-up` in my notes but changed it later in the HCL example. Will fix!

Author: Oh wait, that is the name still, I can try to make this clearer.

» Cloning data from Git
  URL: https://github.com/briancain/waypoint-tetris.git

» Downloading from Git
  Git Commit: 2133658e209f623c019ddb3c9e48c2c7ee9f4d1f
   Timestamp: 2022-08-29 17:04:04 +0000 UTC
     Message: Adding example pipeline

✓ Running deploy v1
✓ Kubernetes client connected to https://10.96.0.1:443 with namespace default
✓ Creating deployment...
✓ Expected "http" port "3000" for app "tetris-v1"
✓ Deployment successfully rolled out!
✓ Horizontal Pod Autoscaler has been created

» Executing Step "release"
  Reading job stream (jobId: 01GBNAQRW22N7PQXSF2KGXT1MS)...

  Performing operation on "kubernetes" with runner profile "kubernetes-bootstrap-profile"

» Cloning data from Git
  URL: https://github.com/briancain/waypoint-tetris.git

» Downloading from Git
  Git Commit: 2133658e209f623c019ddb3c9e48c2c7ee9f4d1f
   Timestamp: 2022-08-29 17:04:04 +0000 UTC
     Message: Adding example pipeline

✓ Running release v1
✓ Kubernetes client connected to https://my-kubernetes.example.com:443 with namespace default
✓ Creating service...
✓ Service is ready!
✔ Pipeline "example" (k8s-tetris) finished!
```

## Future Roadmap For Pipelines

> We plan on continuing to make improvements to pipelines in the coming months to bring it out of tech preview. This includes more support for running batches of operations for a pipeline by improving Waypoints internal job system, sharing VCS project source code between Steps, giving Pipeline steps the ability to share input and output variables, approval Steps to "manually" sign off on releases and more!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We plan to continue making improvements to pipelines in the coming months to bring it out of Tech Preview. This includes more support for running batches of operations for a pipeline by improving Waypoints internal job system, sharing VCS project source code between Steps, giving Pipeline Steps the ability to share input and output variables, approval Steps to "manually" sign off on releases, and more!
```

for more information about the configuration of a Pipeline for a
Waypoint project.

### Pipeline Runs

TODO – Write about pipeline run tracking and the CLI

Each time a pipeline is run, Waypoint will keep track of the resulting run and
detail how each step went or report any failures from running a Step job.

```shell

```

### Exec Step Plugin

Pipelines come with a built-in step plugin named `exec`. This plugin allows a
step to execute bash within the Pipeline run. This could be used to run tests
after a build or deploy, or use tools packaged into the exec step image to
security scan the built artifact.

```hcl
pipeline "example" {
  step "run-some-code" {
    image_url = "https://localhost:5000/waypoint-odr:dev"

    use "exec" {
      # executes a binary test with some arguments
      command = "test"
      args    = ["--full", "test-all"]
    }
  }
}
```

### Embedded Pipelines in Steps

You can optionally define a full pipeline within a Pipeline Step. This pattern
is useful if you have a series of steps that make sense to be grouped together,
such as doing a deploy and release within a specific workspace.

```hcl
pipeline "simple-nested" {
  step "build" {

>     use "build" {
>     }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    use "build" {}
```

  }

  step "deploy" {
    pipeline "deploy" {
      step "deploy" {

>         use "deploy" {
>         }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        use "deploy" {}
```

      }
      step "release" {
        use "release" {
          prune = true
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

~> **NOTE**: Currently, this Tech Preview only allows for 1 level of nesting when defining an embedded pipeline. However, Pipelines can also be used as a reference within a step.

### Reference Pipelines As Steps

You can reference other Pipelines within a Project via a `pipeline` step:

```hcl
project = "my-pipeline-project"

pipeline "simple-nested" {
  step "build" {

>     use "build" {
>     }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    use "build" {}
```

  }

  step "my-deploy" {
    #  "pipeline" is a special "built-in" step that references another pipeline
    use "pipeline" {
      project = "my-pipeline-project"
      name    = "deploy"
    }
  }
}

pipeline "deploy" {
  step "deploy" {

>     use "deploy" {
>     }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    use "deploy" {}
```

  }
  step "release" {
    use "release" {
      prune = true
    }
  }
}
```

### Pipelines Across Workspaces

TODO – Write about Waypoint Pipelines and how it works with workspaces

Additionally, pipelines can be defined and scoped to a Workspace for deploying in various environments.

```hcl

```

## Examples

Below is an example that redefines the Up operation to be a pipeline with three
steps for a build, deploy, and release. This example could be used as a starting
point for more complicated pipelines.

```hcl
project = "my-project"

pipeline "full-up" {
  step "my-build" {

>     use "build" {
>     }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    use "build" {}
```

  }

  step "my-deploy" {

>     use "deploy" {
>     }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    use "deploy" {}
```

  }

  step "my-release" {

>     use "release" {
>     }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    use "release" {}
```

  }
}

app "my-app" {
  build { ... }
  deploy { ... }
  release { ... }
}
```

For the `exec` steps, it accepts a command and arg parameter for running commands.

```hcl
pipeline "build-and-test" {
  step "my-build" {

>     use "build" {
>     }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    use "build" {}
```

  }
  step "test" {
    image_url = "https://localhost:5000/waypoint-odr:dev"
    use "exec" {
      # executes a binary test with some arguments
      command = "test"
      args    = ["--full", "test-all"]
    }
  }
  step "my-deploy" {

>     use "deploy" {
>     }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    use "deploy" {}
```

---
layout: docs
page_title: Pipelines
description: |-
  The overview of Waypoint Pipelines.
---

# Waypoint Custom Pipelines

> ~> **NOTE**: Custom Pipelines is currently a **Tech Preview** feature of Waypoint.
> Given that, we invite all Waypoint users to give custom pipelines a try and let
> us know your experience with it on our [Discuss forums](https://discuss.hashicorp.com/c/waypoint/51),
> and feature requests, enhancements, or any bugs you might find
> via [GitHub](https://github.com/hashicorp/waypoint/issues). We look forward to
> hearing what you think and ways Waypoint can help make your experience
> delivering your applications even better!
> 
> Waypoint, before the introduction of Pipelines, has always had a relatively fixed
> built-in pipeline with the `waypoint up` CLI command.
> An "Up" was a special operation that encapsulated a Build, Deploy, and
> Release for an application. For most users getting started with Waypoint, this
> simple pipeline is powerful enough to get off the ground continuously building
> and deploying an application to production.
> 
> However, as projects and teams
> become more complicated addressing real-world concerns, users wished for more
> control and customization over the order in which Waypoint deploys applications.
> Teams need to run tests after a build, security scan artifacts prior to a deploy, and
> so on. Custom Pipelines enable teams to solve these problems. With this tech preview, users can
> define pipelines to run in the order they require to deliver their
> application. Additionally, pipelines allow for custom execution steps through
> the "Exec" plugin, allowing teams to run scripts as part of the pipeline
> execution, further enabling highly-customized operations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
~> **NOTE**: Custom Pipelines is currently a **Tech Preview** feature of Waypoint.
We invite all Waypoint users to give custom pipelines a try and let us know about your experience on our [Discuss forums](https://discuss.hashicorp.com/c/waypoint/51), as well as feature requests, enhancements, or bugs
via [GitHub](https://github.com/hashicorp/waypoint/issues). We look forward to
hearing what you think and how Waypoint can help make your experience
delivering your applications even better!

Before the introduction of Pipelines, Waypoint had a relatively fixed
built-in pipeline with the `waypoint up` CLI command.
An "Up" is a special operation that encapsulates the Build, Deploy, and
Release workflow for an application. This
simple yet powerful pipeline is great for most early users of Waypoint to continuously build
and deploy an application to production.

As our product grew, so did our users. Users wished for more fine-tuned control and customization over how Waypoint deploys applications. Teams need to run tests after a build, security scan artifacts prior to a deploy, and so on. Custom Pipelines enable teams to solve increasingly complex challenges. 
In the Tech Preview, users can define pipelines to run in the order they require to deliver their
application. Additionally, users can run scripts as a pipeline execution step via the "Exec" plugin, which further enables highly customized operations.
```

Pipelines allow users to tell Waypoint what order these operations should

> run in and configure any operation options necessary, like disabling an

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
run in and configure any operation options necessary; such as disabling an
```

artifact push in the `build` step, or pruning old deployments
on a release in the `release` step.

Please visit the [Pipeline Configuration Docs](/docs/pipelines/config)
for more information about the configuration of a Pipeline for a
Waypoint project.

### Pipeline Runs

> Each time a pipeline is run, Waypoint keeps track of the steps and run results.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each time a pipeline is run, Waypoint keeps track of the steps, jobs, and run results.
```

### Reference Pipelines As Steps

You can reference other Pipelines within a Project via a `pipeline` step:

```hcl
project = "my-pipeline-project"

pipeline "simple-nested" {
  step "build" {
    use "build" {}
  }

  step "my-deploy" {
    #  "pipeline" is a special "built-in" step that references another pipeline
    use "pipeline" {
      project = "my-pipeline-project"
      name    = "deploy"
    }
  }
}

pipeline "deploy" {
  step "deploy" {
    use "deploy" {}
  }
  step "release" {
    use "release" {
      prune = true
    }
  }
}
```

### Pipelines Across Workspaces

Pipelines can be defined and scoped to a Workspace for deploying in various environments.
When you use the pipeline run CLI, you can run a pipeline in a different workspace
with the `-workspace` flag.

```shell
$ workspace pipeline run builder -workspace=dev
```

#### Workspace Scoped Steps

You can override the environment that a Pipeline step runs in by specifying a
`workspace` param for any step in your Pipeline definition. For example,

> this pipelines "build-prod" step will run in the production workspace.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
this pipeline's "build-prod" step will run in the production ("prod") workspace.
```

> Notice that in the app definition, it contains two build stanzas, one of which
> is _workspace scoped_. That means when the "build-prod" step runs, it will
> use that workspace scoped build plugin pack rather than the default "docker" plugin.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Notice that the "build" stanza in the "app" definition contains two "use" plugin definitions, 
one of which is _workspace scoped_. That means when the "build-prod" step runs, it will
use the "prod" workspace scoped build plugin pack rather than the default "docker" plugin.
```

```hcl
// waypoint.hcl
pipeline "builder" {
  step "build-dev" {
    use "build" {}
  }
  step "build-prod" {
    workspace = "prod"
    use "build" {}
  }
  step "deploy-dev" {
    use "deploy" {
      release = false
    }
  }
}

// waypoint.hcl
app "tetris" {
  build {
    use "docker" {}

    workspace "prod" {
      use "pack" {}
    }
  }
  deploy {
    use "docker" {}

    workspace "prod" {
      use "kubernetes" {}
    }
  }
}
```

You can also use this to set a workspace for an embedded pipeline:

```hcl
pipeline "builder" {
  step "build" {
    use "build" {}
  }
  step "deploy-test" {
    workspace = "test"
    pipeline "deploy-test-env" {
      step "build" {
        // test env uses docker-pull
        use "build" {}
      }
      step "deploy" {
        use "deploy" {}
      }
      // more steps here...
    }
  }
  step "deploy-prod" {
    workspace = "prod"
    pipeline "deploy-prod-env" {
      step "build" {
        // prod env uses docker-pull
        use "build" {}
      }
      step "deploy" {
        use "deploy" {}
      }
      // more steps here...
    }
  }
}
```

## Examples

> Below is an example that redefines the Up operation to be a pipeline with three

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Below is an example that redefines the Up operation as a pipeline with three
```

> steps for a build, deploy, and release. This example could be used as a starting

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
steps for a build, deploy, and release workflow. This example could be used as a starting
```

Reviewer 2: "Workflow" may be an overloaded term, so I'm ok if we don't use it. But yea either 
"steps for build, deploy, and release" 
or 
"steps for a build, deploy, and release <something>"

Author: I think it makes sense! I'll go for it

point for more complicated pipelines.

```hcl
project = "my-project"

pipeline "full-up" {
  step "my-build" {
    use "build" {}
  }

  step "my-deploy" {
    use "deploy" {}
  }

  step "my-release" {
    use "release" {}
  }
}

app "my-app" {
  build { ... }
  deploy { ... }
  release { ... }
}
```

> For the `exec` steps, it accepts a command and arg parameter for running commands.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `exec` step accepts "command" and "arg" parameters for executing commands.
```

Reviewer 2: Or we can use `command` and `arg`. In fact, we should probably standardize that.

```hcl
pipeline "build-and-test" {
  step "my-build" {
    use "build" {}
  }
  step "test" {
    image_url = "https://localhost:5000/waypoint-odr:dev"
    use "exec" {
      # executes a binary test with some arguments
      command = "test"
      args    = ["--full", "test-all"]
    }
  }
  step "my-deploy" {
    use "deploy" {}
  }
}
```

> To run the example pipeline named "full-up" defined in this example, it's as

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To run the example pipeline named "full-up" defined in this example, it is as
```

simple as `waypoint pipeline run full-up`:

```shell

> brian@ubuntu:waypoint-tetris λ waypoint pipeline run full-up

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
❯ waypoint pipeline run full-up
```

We should keep the example shells consistent in the documentation.

more information.

`waypoint pipeline list` shows the current steps, last run start and complete
times, last run state, and total runs for every pipeline in the project.

```shell
❯ waypoint pipeline list

» Waypoint Pipelines for my-project
              ID             | NAME |    OWNER     | CURRENT STEPS | LAST RUN STARTED | LAST RUN COMPLETED |  STATE  | TOTAL RUNS
-----------------------------+------+--------------+---------------+------------------+--------------------+---------+-------------
  01GBBBC63TR5DYQXQVGJPS8JGZ | test | example-java |             2 | 5 days ago       | 5 days ago         | success |          5
```

`waypoint pipeline inspect` can look up a specific pipeline by ID (default) or
name, as well as an additional option to view a specific run of that pipeline.
Pipeline run information will include run state, steps, timestamps, and associated job IDs.

```shell
❯ waypoint pipeline inspect -name=test

» Pipeline Configuration
                  ID: 01GBBBC63TR5DYQXQVGJPS8JGZ
                Name: test
               Owner: example-java
      Root Step Name: build
         Total Steps: 2
          Total Runs: 9
    Last Run Started: 1 minute ago

>   Last Run Completed: a long while ago

Reviewer 3: nit: while is recognized as a keyword here and shows up in red text.

<img width="899" alt="Screen Shot 2022-09-07 at 12 28 53 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/83741749/188931213-d8b243a3-c67a-4e33-9189-5e689fd85ef6.png">

Author: That's because it's wrapped in a `shell` block, not much we can do about this! Could make it a regular code block with no formatting.

     Last Run Status: RUNNING
```

```shell
❯ waypoint pipeline inspect -name=test -run=3

» Pipeline Configuration
              ID: 01GBBBC63TR5DYQXQVGJPS8JGZ
            Name: test
           Owner: example-java
  Root Step Name: build
     Total Steps: 2
    Run Sequence: 3
     Jobs Queued: [id:"01GBBBQJZHZVMKRAQSXGYXKEZY" id:"01GBBBQJZH05YD6MN91X30G7HF"]
     Run Started: 5 days ago

>    Run Completed: 5 days ago

Reviewer 3: Do the "Run Started" and "Run Completed" times mean the start/end time of the most recent run?

Author: It would be the timestamp of this specific run sequence, number 3.

    use "pipeline" {
      project = "my-pipeline-project"
      name    = "deploy"
    }
  }
}

pipeline "deploy" {
  step "deploy" {
    use "deploy" { }
  }
  step "release" {
    use "release" {
      prune = true
    }
  }
}
```

### Pipelines Across Workspaces

Pipelines can be defined and scoped to a Workspace for deploying in various environments.
When you use the pipeline run CLI, you can run a pipeline in a different workspace
with the `-workspace` flag.

```shell
$ workspace pipeline run builder -workspace=dev
```

#### Workspace Scoped Steps

You can override the environment that a Pipeline step runs in by specifying a
`workspace` param for any step in your Pipeline definition. For example,
this pipelines "build-prod" step will run in the production workspace.

Notice that in the app definition, it contains two build stanzas, one of which
is _workspace scoped_. That means when the "build-prod" step runs, it will
use that workspace scoped build plugin pack rather than the default "docker" plugin.

```hcl
// waypoint.hcl
pipeline "builder" {
  step "build-dev" {
    use "build" { }
  }
  step "build-prod" {
    workspace = "prod"

>     use "build" {

Reviewer 3: In other places in the documentation, I've seen empty stanzas written as:

```hcl
use "build" {}
```

I feel like we should follow that here as well.

Author: ah yeah, I missed this one!

    }
  }
  step "deploy-dev" {
    use "deploy" {

>       release=false

Reviewer 3: The spacing seems off here.
